# Crafting Materials

The following items are used to create basic and intermediate components
for many of the components used to build
[Computers](/block/computer_case), [Servers](/block/server_rack),
[Robots](/block/robot), and [Drones](/item/drone).

### Basic Components

Basic components are made of vanilla Minecraft components, and are used
in creating intermediate components. A combination of basic and
intermediate components are used in creating all of the various blocks
and items available in OpenComputers.

#### Raw Circuit Board

Raw Circuit Boards (8x) are made using:

- 1 x Clay - 1 x Gold Ingot - 1 x Cactus Green

![](/recipes/items/rawcircuitboard.png){width="200"}

#### Printed Circuit Board

Printed Circuit Boards are made from smelting Raw Circuit Boards in a
furnace.

![](/recipes/items/printedcircuitboard.png){width="200"}

#### Transistor

Transistors (8x) are crafted using the following recipe:

- 3 x Iron Ingot - 2 x Gold nugget/oreberry - 1 x Redstone - 1 x Paper

![](/recipes/items/transistor.png){width="200"}

#### Interweb

The Interweb is made using the following recipe:

- 1 x Ender pearl - 8 x String

![](/recipes/items/interweb.png){width="200"}

#### End Stone

End Stone (OpenComputers version) is made using the following recipe:

- 5 x Ender pearl - 4 x Chamelium block

![](/recipes/blocks/endstone.png){width="200"}

#### Disk Platter

The Disk Platter is made using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron nugget/oreberry

![](/recipes/items/diskplatter.png){width="200"}

#### Cutting Wire

Cutting Wire is made using:

- 2 x Stick - 1 x Iron Ingot

[Stick, Iron Nugget, Stick]

#### Diamond Chip

Diamond Chips (6x) are made using:

- 1 x [Cutting Wire](/item/materials#cutting_wire) - 1 x Diamond

#### Keyboard Arrow Keys/Button Group/Numeric Keypad

All of the following recipes use Stone buttons to create the
[Keyboard](/block/keyboard) components.

Arrow keys:

![](/recipes/items/kbarrows.png){width="200"}

Button group:

![](/recipes/items/kbbuttons.png){width="200"}

Numeric keypad:

![](/recipes/items/kbnumpad.png){width="200"}

#### Chamelium

Chamelium is a material used in 3D Printers, and is made using the
following recipe:

- 4 x Gravel - 1 x Charoal - 3 x Redstone - 1 x Bucket of Water

![](/recipes/items/chamelium.png){width="200"}

### Intermediate Components

Intermediate components are made from basic components, as well as
vanilla Minecraft components.

#### Microchips

The Tier 1 Microchip is crafted (8x) using the following recipe: * 1 x
[Transistor](/item/materials#transistor) * 2 x Redstone * 6 x Iron
nugget/oreberry

![](/recipes/items/t1microchip.png){width="200"}

The Tier 2 Microchip is crafted (4x) using the following recipe: * 1 x
[Transistor](/item/materials#transistor) * 2 x Redstone * 6 x Gold
nugget/oreberry

![](/recipes/items/t2microchip.png){width="200"}

The Tier 3 Microchip is crafted (2x) using the following recipe: * 1 x
[Transistor](/item/materials#transistor) * 2 x Redstone * 6 x [Diamond
Chip](/item/materials#diamond_chip)

![](/recipes/items/tier3microchip.png){width="200"}

#### Card Base

The Card Base is a key component in making various expansion cards, such
as [Graphics Cards](/item/graphics_card), [Network
Cards](/item/network_card), [Linked Cards](/item/linked_card), etc.

The following recipe is used in crafting the Card Base:

- 1 x [Printed Circuit Board](/item/materials#printed circuit board) -
3 x Iron nugget/oreberry - 1 x Gold nugget/oreberry

![](/recipes/items/cardbase.png){width="200"}

#### Control Unit (CU)

The Control Unit is crafted using the following recipe: * 1 x Clock *
1 x Redstone * 3 x [Transistor](/item/materials#transistor) * 4 x Gold
nugget/oreberry

![](/recipes/items/controlunit.png){width="200"}

#### Arithmetic Logic Unit

The Arithmetic Logic Unit is crafted using the following recipe:

- 1 x [Microchip (Tier 1)](/item/materials#microchips) - 1 x Redstone -
3 x [Transistor](/item/materials#transistor) - 4 x Iron nugget/oreberry

![](/recipes/items/logicunit.png){width="200"}