# Tank Upgrade

![](/items/upgradetank.png){width="128"}

This upgrade provides an internal fluid tank to the robot, one per
upgrade. Each tank can only store a single type of liquid at a time.
When there are multiple tanks installed, one of the tanks can be
selected (similar to slots in the robots inventory), and will then be
used for a large number of operations.

For example, fluids are piped into / out of the selected tank when the
robot is accessed externally (by pipes, such as the fluid pipes provided
by BuildCraft, or Fluiducts in Thermal Expansion).

There are a number of methods provided in the [Robot API](/api/robot)
that allow manipulating the fluid tanks in a similar fashion to the
robot's inventory. Fluids can be sucked from or filled into tanks or
the world, and can be transferred inbetween tanks, and compared against
each other.

Fluids stored in a tank upgrade are kept there when the upgrade is
removed. Tank upgrades therefore act as persistent fluid storage. They
do not yet act as generic fluid container items, meaning they cannot be
filled/drained directly by other mods. This will be added in OC 1.4.

The Tank Upgrade is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Wood Plank - 1 x Cauldron - 1 x Iron bars - 1 x Dispensor - 1 x
Piston - 1 x [Microchip (Tier 1)](/item/materials)

      {{:recipes:items:tank.png?nolink&200|}}

## Contents

# Tank Upgrade

![](/items/upgradetank.png){width="128"}

This upgrade provides an internal fluid tank to the robot, one per
upgrade. Each tank can only store a single type of liquid at a time.
When there are multiple tanks installed, one of the tanks can be
selected (similar to slots in the robots inventory), and will then be
used for a large number of operations.

For example, fluids are piped into / out of the selected tank when the
robot is accessed externally (by pipes, such as the fluid pipes provided
by BuildCraft, or Fluiducts in Thermal Expansion).

There are a number of methods provided in the [Robot API](/api/robot)
that allow manipulating the fluid tanks in a similar fashion to the
robot's inventory. Fluids can be sucked from or filled into tanks or
the world, and can be transferred inbetween tanks, and compared against
each other.

Fluids stored in a tank upgrade are kept there when the upgrade is
removed. Tank upgrades therefore act as persistent fluid storage. They
do not yet act as generic fluid container items, meaning they cannot be
filled/drained directly by other mods. This will be added in OC 1.4.

The Tank Upgrade is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Wood Plank - 1 x Cauldron - 1 x Iron bars - 1 x Dispensor - 1 x
Piston - 1 x [Microchip (Tier 1)](/item/materials)

      {{:recipes:items:tank.png?nolink&200|}}

## Contents
