# Microcontroller Case

![](/items/microcontrollercase0.png){width="128"}
![](/items/microcontrollercase1.png){width="128"}

This item is used in an [Assembler](/block/assembler) to build
[Microcontrollers](/block/microcontroller), which are essentially
cheaper and minimalistic computers, intended for special use-cases, such
as redstone control.

## Tier 1

The Microcontroller case (Tier 1) can house the following components (up
to the specified tier):

- 1 x [CPU (Tier 1)](/item/cpu) - 1 x [Memory (Tier 1)](/item/memory) -
1 x [EEPROM](/item/eeprom) - 2 x Expansion card (Tier 1) - 1 x Upgrade
(Tier 2)

The Microcontroller Case (Tier 1) is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron nugget/oreberry (with Tinker's Construct) - 2 x Redstone
dust - 1 x Chest - 1 x [Printed Circuit Board](/item/materials) - 1 x
[Microchip (Tier 1)](/item/materials)

      {{:recipes:items:t1microcase.png?nolink&200}}

## Tier 2

The Microcontroller case (Tier 2) can house the following components (up
to the specified tier):

- 1 x [CPU (Tier 1)](/item/cpu) - 2 x [Memory (Tier 1)](/item/memory) -
1 x [EEPROM](/item/eeprom) - 1 x Expansion card (Tier 1) - 1 x Expansion
card (Tier 2) - 1 x Upgrade (Tier 3)

The Microcontroller case (Tier 2) is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Gold nugget/oreberry (with Tinker's Construct) - 2 x Block of
Redstone - 1 x Chest - 1 x [Printed Circuit Board](/item/materials) - 1
x [Microchip (Tier 3)](/item/materials)

      {{:recipes:items:t2microcase.png?nolink&200}}

## Tier 4 (Creative)

The Creative Microcontroller case can house the following components (up
to the specified tier):

- 1 x [CPU (Tier 3)](/item/cpu) - 3 x Expansion slot (Tier 3) - 2 x
[Memory (Tier 3)](/item/memory) - 1 x [EEPROM](/item/eeprom) - 9 x
Upgrades (Tier 3)

## Contents

# Microcontroller Case

![](/items/microcontrollercase0.png){width="128"}
![](/items/microcontrollercase1.png){width="128"}

This item is used in an [Assembler](/block/assembler) to build
[Microcontrollers](/block/microcontroller), which are essentially
cheaper and minimalistic computers, intended for special use-cases, such
as redstone control.

## Tier 1

The Microcontroller case (Tier 1) can house the following components (up
to the specified tier):

- 1 x [CPU (Tier 1)](/item/cpu) - 1 x [Memory (Tier 1)](/item/memory) -
1 x [EEPROM](/item/eeprom) - 2 x Expansion card (Tier 1) - 1 x Upgrade
(Tier 2)

The Microcontroller Case (Tier 1) is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron nugget/oreberry (with Tinker's Construct) - 2 x Redstone
dust - 1 x Chest - 1 x [Printed Circuit Board](/item/materials) - 1 x
[Microchip (Tier 1)](/item/materials)

      {{:recipes:items:t1microcase.png?nolink&200}}

## Tier 2

The Microcontroller case (Tier 2) can house the following components (up
to the specified tier):

- 1 x [CPU (Tier 1)](/item/cpu) - 2 x [Memory (Tier 1)](/item/memory) -
1 x [EEPROM](/item/eeprom) - 1 x Expansion card (Tier 1) - 1 x Expansion
card (Tier 2) - 1 x Upgrade (Tier 3)

The Microcontroller case (Tier 2) is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Gold nugget/oreberry (with Tinker's Construct) - 2 x Block of
Redstone - 1 x Chest - 1 x [Printed Circuit Board](/item/materials) - 1
x [Microchip (Tier 3)](/item/materials)

      {{:recipes:items:t2microcase.png?nolink&200}}

## Tier 4 (Creative)

The Creative Microcontroller case can house the following components (up
to the specified tier):

- 1 x [CPU (Tier 3)](/item/cpu) - 3 x Expansion slot (Tier 3) - 2 x
[Memory (Tier 3)](/item/memory) - 1 x [EEPROM](/item/eeprom) - 9 x
Upgrades (Tier 3)

## Contents
