# Adapter

![](/blocks/adapter.png){width="128"}

Used to control non-component blocks, such as vanilla blocks or blocks
from other mods. `~~`{=html}You will most likely also install
[OpenComponents](<https://github.com/MightyPirates/OpenComponents>) to
make this block more useful.`~~`{=html}

This block allows interfacing with all kinds of blocks, as long as a
driver is made available to OpenComputers. For example,
`~~`{=html}OpenComponents`~~`{=html} OpenComputers comes with such
drivers for the vanilla Command Block and Note Block, as well as drivers
for a bunch of tech mods such as BuildCraft IndustrialCraft2 and
ThermalExpansion. `~~`{=html}OpenComponents`~~`{=html} OpenComputers
will also allow the Adapter to interface with most ComputerCraft
peripherals.

If you're a modder it's pretty easy to write a driver, you just have
to implement the corresponding interface from the API and register it
with OpenComputers in the init phase. `~~`{=html}Have a look at the
implementation of OpenComponents, if you find [the
documentation](<https://github.com/MightyPirates/OpenComputers/tree/master/src/main/java/li/cil/oc/api>)
in the interfaces is insufficient.`~~`{=html} Have a look at existing
implementations within
[OpenComputers](<https://github.com/MightyPirates/OpenComputers/tree/master-MC1.8/src/main/scala/li/cil/oc/integration>)
if you find the documentations in the interfaces is insufficient.

The Adapter is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron Ingot - 3 x [Cable](/block/cable) - 1 x [Microchip (Tier
1)](/item/materials) - 1 x [Printed Circuit Board](/item/materials)

      {{:recipes:blocks:adapter.png?nolink&200|}}

## Contents

# Adapter

![](/blocks/adapter.png){width="128"}

Used to control non-component blocks, such as vanilla blocks or blocks
from other mods. `~~`{=html}You will most likely also install
[OpenComponents](<https://github.com/MightyPirates/OpenComponents>) to
make this block more useful.`~~`{=html}

This block allows interfacing with all kinds of blocks, as long as a
driver is made available to OpenComputers. For example,
`~~`{=html}OpenComponents`~~`{=html} OpenComputers comes with such
drivers for the vanilla Command Block and Note Block, as well as drivers
for a bunch of tech mods such as BuildCraft IndustrialCraft2 and
ThermalExpansion. `~~`{=html}OpenComponents`~~`{=html} OpenComputers
will also allow the Adapter to interface with most ComputerCraft
peripherals.

If you're a modder it's pretty easy to write a driver, you just have
to implement the corresponding interface from the API and register it
with OpenComputers in the init phase. `~~`{=html}Have a look at the
implementation of OpenComponents, if you find [the
documentation](<https://github.com/MightyPirates/OpenComputers/tree/master/src/main/java/li/cil/oc/api>)
in the interfaces is insufficient.`~~`{=html} Have a look at existing
implementations within
[OpenComputers](<https://github.com/MightyPirates/OpenComputers/tree/master-MC1.8/src/main/scala/li/cil/oc/integration>)
if you find the documentations in the interfaces is insufficient.

The Adapter is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron Ingot - 3 x [Cable](/block/cable) - 1 x [Microchip (Tier
1)](/item/materials) - 1 x [Printed Circuit Board](/item/materials)

      {{:recipes:blocks:adapter.png?nolink&200|}}

## Contents
