# Hologram Projector

![](/blocks/hologram1.png){width="128"}
![](/blocks/hologram2.png){width="128"}

This block projects a hologram in the area over it. The size of the
hologram can be scaled from 1x1x1 block to 9x9x6 blocks. The number of
'voxels' will stay the same, regardless of scale though. It has
resolution of 48x32x48 monochrome voxels (they can either be on or off).
Each voxel in that 3D array can be set individually. Generated holograms
will [look like this](<http://i.imgur.com/jR3UeZj.png>).

The second tier of the hologram projector is also capable of displaying
colored voxels - in three different colors. These colors can be set to
any desired value, i.e. the color palette is editable.

*Tier 2 since version 1.3.*

The Tier 1 Hologram Projector is crafted using the following recipe:

- 2 x [Microchip (Tier 2)](/item/materials) - 2 x [Printed Circuit
Board](/item/materials) - 2 x Obsidian - 1 x Diamond (Replaced with a
Diamond Chip in 1.6 OC) - 1 x Glass Pane - 1 x Glowstone Dust

![](/recipes/blocks/t1hologram.png){width="200"}

The Tier 2 Hologram Projector is crafted using the following recipe:

- 2 x [Microchip (Tier 3)](/item/materials) - 1 x Glass - 2 x [Printed
Circuit Board](/item/materials) - 2 x Obsidian - 1 x Diamond Block
(Replaced with a Diamond in 1.6 OC) - 1 x Blaze Powder

![](/recipes/blocks/t2hologram.png){width="200"}

## Contents

# Hologram Projector

![](/blocks/hologram1.png){width="128"}
![](/blocks/hologram2.png){width="128"}

This block projects a hologram in the area over it. The size of the
hologram can be scaled from 1x1x1 block to 9x9x6 blocks. The number of
'voxels' will stay the same, regardless of scale though. It has
resolution of 48x32x48 monochrome voxels (they can either be on or off).
Each voxel in that 3D array can be set individually. Generated holograms
will [look like this](<http://i.imgur.com/jR3UeZj.png>).

The second tier of the hologram projector is also capable of displaying
colored voxels - in three different colors. These colors can be set to
any desired value, i.e. the color palette is editable.

*Tier 2 since version 1.3.*

The Tier 1 Hologram Projector is crafted using the following recipe:

- 2 x [Microchip (Tier 2)](/item/materials) - 2 x [Printed Circuit
Board](/item/materials) - 2 x Obsidian - 1 x Diamond (Replaced with a
Diamond Chip in 1.6 OC) - 1 x Glass Pane - 1 x Glowstone Dust

![](/recipes/blocks/t1hologram.png){width="200"}

The Tier 2 Hologram Projector is crafted using the following recipe:

- 2 x [Microchip (Tier 3)](/item/materials) - 1 x Glass - 2 x [Printed
Circuit Board](/item/materials) - 2 x Obsidian - 1 x Diamond Block
(Replaced with a Diamond in 1.6 OC) - 1 x Blaze Powder

![](/recipes/blocks/t2hologram.png){width="200"}

## Contents
