# Cable

![](/blocks/cable.png){width="128"}

A cheap way of connecting blocks. As described [on the start
page](/start#connectivity), most blocks in OpenComputers will serve as
"connectors", i.e. components will automatically be available to any
computers they are indirectly connected to. A few exceptions are the
[switch](/block/switch) and the [power
distributor](/block/power_distributor) blocks, which explicitly should
not connect different networks they are adjacent to. Cables are the
least expensive way of building such connections over longer distances.
For example, if you wish to have your actual computer in a safe place,
and the screen somewhere more visible, you may wish to connect the
screen to your computer using cables. Instead of... capacitors. Or more
screens.

The Cable is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron nugget/oreberry (with Tinker's Construct) - 1 x Redstone
Dust

![](/recipes/blocks/cable.png){width="200"}

## Contents

# Cable

![](/blocks/cable.png){width="128"}

A cheap way of connecting blocks. As described [on the start
page](/start#connectivity), most blocks in OpenComputers will serve as
"connectors", i.e. components will automatically be available to any
computers they are indirectly connected to. A few exceptions are the
[switch](/block/switch) and the [power
distributor](/block/power_distributor) blocks, which explicitly should
not connect different networks they are adjacent to. Cables are the
least expensive way of building such connections over longer distances.
For example, if you wish to have your actual computer in a safe place,
and the screen somewhere more visible, you may wish to connect the
screen to your computer using cables. Instead of... capacitors. Or more
screens.

The Cable is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron nugget/oreberry (with Tinker's Construct) - 1 x Redstone
Dust

![](/recipes/blocks/cable.png){width="200"}

## Contents
