# Capacitor

![](/blocks/capacitor.png){width="128"}

Stores energy for later use. Can be filled and emptied very quickly.
Note that some blocks have a small, internal storage capacity, to allow
getting started quickly with a small setup (e.g. [computer
cases](/block/case) and [power converters](/block/power_converter)).
This means you will have to keep supplying power almost non-stop, to
avoid computers shutting down due to power loss. To increase the time a
network can continue to function without new power being injected into
it you can build capacitors to increase the networks' energy storage
capacity.

You'll also want to have some capacitors ready to allow charging robots
at a reasonable pace without bringing down all other components in your
network. Otherwise they'll just suck your network dry.

The Capacitor is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron Ingot - 2 x Gold nugget/oreberry (with Tinker's Construct)
- 1 x [Transistor](/item/materials) - 1 x [Printed Circuit
Board](/item/materials)

![](/recipes/blocks/capacitor.png){width="200"}

## Contents

# Capacitor

![](/blocks/capacitor.png){width="128"}

Stores energy for later use. Can be filled and emptied very quickly.
Note that some blocks have a small, internal storage capacity, to allow
getting started quickly with a small setup (e.g. [computer
cases](/block/case) and [power converters](/block/power_converter)).
This means you will have to keep supplying power almost non-stop, to
avoid computers shutting down due to power loss. To increase the time a
network can continue to function without new power being injected into
it you can build capacitors to increase the networks' energy storage
capacity.

You'll also want to have some capacitors ready to allow charging robots
at a reasonable pace without bringing down all other components in your
network. Otherwise they'll just suck your network dry.

The Capacitor is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron Ingot - 2 x Gold nugget/oreberry (with Tinker's Construct)
- 1 x [Transistor](/item/materials) - 1 x [Printed Circuit
Board](/item/materials)

![](/recipes/blocks/capacitor.png){width="200"}

## Contents
