# Disassembler

![](/blocks/disassembler.png){width="128"}

This block can be used to recycle OC's items and blocks. It will take
items put into it apart, and output the original parts of the item or
block. If there is an adjacent inventory, output will be placed into
that inventory. Otherwise the items are spawned in the world.

This block is particularly useful for taking apart old tier one
equipment, or for disassembling robots that didn't quite turn out the
way you wanted them to.

**Warning**: there is a 5% chance for each outputted item to break. For
example, when disassembling and object that consists of 100 items of
type "X", on average you will only get 95 of them back. This value can
be changed in the config, if you think this is too harsh / not harsh
enough.

*Since version 1.3.*

The Disassembler is crafted using the following recipe:

- 2 x Iron ingot - 1 x Obsidian - 1 x Glass Pane - 1 x Piston - 1 x
Bucket of Lava - 1 x [Control Unit](/item/materials) - 1 x
[Analyzer](/item/analyzer)

![](/recipes/blocks/disassembler.png){width="200"}

## Contents

# Disassembler

![](/blocks/disassembler.png){width="128"}

This block can be used to recycle OC's items and blocks. It will take
items put into it apart, and output the original parts of the item or
block. If there is an adjacent inventory, output will be placed into
that inventory. Otherwise the items are spawned in the world.

This block is particularly useful for taking apart old tier one
equipment, or for disassembling robots that didn't quite turn out the
way you wanted them to.

**Warning**: there is a 5% chance for each outputted item to break. For
example, when disassembling and object that consists of 100 items of
type "X", on average you will only get 95 of them back. This value can
be changed in the config, if you think this is too harsh / not harsh
enough.

*Since version 1.3.*

The Disassembler is crafted using the following recipe:

- 2 x Iron ingot - 1 x Obsidian - 1 x Glass Pane - 1 x Piston - 1 x
Bucket of Lava - 1 x [Control Unit](/item/materials) - 1 x
[Analyzer](/item/analyzer)

![](/recipes/blocks/disassembler.png){width="200"}

## Contents
