# Power Converter

![](/blocks/power_converter.png){width="128"}

Converts power from other mods to the internal energy type. The default
conversion rates are:

- BuildCraft MJ: 1:1. - Factorization Charge: 76.9:1 - IndustrialCraft²
EU: 2.5:1. - Mekanism Joules: 1:1.1 (18:1 in MC 1.6) - Redstone Flux:
14.3:1 (10:1 in MC 1.6) - Universal Electricity Joules: 1:1. - Simple
Generators: 10:1

Note that computer cases and server racks, as well as the assembler,
disassembler and charger blocks also act as power converters, i.e. you
can feed power from other mods directly into those, too, at the same
rates. The rule of thumb is: if it requires power to run and can operate
independent of a computer (or is a computer) it can accept power.

Since there is no way to generate the mods internal energy directly at
this point you'll definitely need one of these. Well, the exception is
the generator upgrade for robots, but that energy can only be used by
the robot with the upgrade.

The Power Converter is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron Ingot - 2 x Gold Ingot - 1 x [Printed Circuit
Board](/item/materials) - 1 x [Microchip (Tier 1)](/item/materials) - 1
x [Cable](/block/cable)

![](/recipes/blocks/powerconverter.png){width="200"}

## Contents

# Power Converter

![](/blocks/power_converter.png){width="128"}

Converts power from other mods to the internal energy type. The default
conversion rates are:

- BuildCraft MJ: 1:1. - Factorization Charge: 76.9:1 - IndustrialCraft²
EU: 2.5:1. - Mekanism Joules: 1:1.1 (18:1 in MC 1.6) - Redstone Flux:
14.3:1 (10:1 in MC 1.6) - Universal Electricity Joules: 1:1. - Simple
Generators: 10:1

Note that computer cases and server racks, as well as the assembler,
disassembler and charger blocks also act as power converters, i.e. you
can feed power from other mods directly into those, too, at the same
rates. The rule of thumb is: if it requires power to run and can operate
independent of a computer (or is a computer) it can accept power.

Since there is no way to generate the mods internal energy directly at
this point you'll definitely need one of these. Well, the exception is
the generator upgrade for robots, but that energy can only be used by
the robot with the upgrade.

The Power Converter is crafted using the following recipe:

- 4 x Iron Ingot - 2 x Gold Ingot - 1 x [Printed Circuit
Board](/item/materials) - 1 x [Microchip (Tier 1)](/item/materials) - 1
x [Cable](/block/cable)

![](/recipes/blocks/powerconverter.png){width="200"}

## Contents
