# Waypoint

The waypoint block provides additional functionality for
[robots](/block/robot) and [drones](/item/drone) with a [navigation
upgrade](/item/navigation_upgrade). The position of the waypoint
reported is the block directly in front of the waypoint, as indicated by
the particle effects. This allows the waypoint block to be placed above
a chest, for instance, to be able to determine the position of the block
directly above the chest.

Waypoints can be labeled and provided with a redstone signal. This
allows for finer control when writing sorting programs, for instance.

The waypoint block can be located using the `findWaypoints()` function
in the [navigation](/component/navigation) component. This allows the
[robots](/block/robot) or [drone](/item/drone) to find all waypoints
within a certain range; the function returns the label of the waypoint,
the position of the waypoint in relative coordinates, as well as the
redstone level of the waypoint.

The Waypoint is crafted using the following recipe:

- 1 x [Interweb](/item/materials) - 1 x [Printed Circuit
Board](/item/materials) - 2 x [Transistor](/item/materials) - 4 x Iron
ingot

![waypoint.png](/recipes/blocks/waypoint.png){width="200"}

## Contents

# Waypoint

The waypoint block provides additional functionality for
[robots](/block/robot) and [drones](/item/drone) with a [navigation
upgrade](/item/navigation_upgrade). The position of the waypoint
reported is the block directly in front of the waypoint, as indicated by
the particle effects. This allows the waypoint block to be placed above
a chest, for instance, to be able to determine the position of the block
directly above the chest.

Waypoints can be labeled and provided with a redstone signal. This
allows for finer control when writing sorting programs, for instance.

The waypoint block can be located using the `findWaypoints()` function
in the [navigation](/component/navigation) component. This allows the
[robots](/block/robot) or [drone](/item/drone) to find all waypoints
within a certain range; the function returns the label of the waypoint,
the position of the waypoint in relative coordinates, as well as the
redstone level of the waypoint.

The Waypoint is crafted using the following recipe:

- 1 x [Interweb](/item/materials) - 1 x [Printed Circuit
Board](/item/materials) - 2 x [Transistor](/item/materials) - 4 x Iron
ingot

![waypoint.png](/recipes/blocks/waypoint.png){width="200"}

## Contents
